Motionbuilder/admin docs (#221)
ynput/ayon-documentation: website/docs/addon_motionbuilder_admin.md

{versions.MotionBuilder_Badge}
</ReactMarkdown>

## Setting your Motion Builder launching version in Application

> Users can set up your own Motion Builder version in Application Addon

Reviewer: This is not for users - but for admins.

```suggestion
Admins can configure the Motion Builder version executables and environments in the Application addon settings.
```

Reviewer 2: This section was removed.

You can click **+** button to add new different version.

![AYON Application Motion Builder](assets/motionbuilder_setting_version_application.png)

> :::warning Important
> As the integration developed with Motion Builder 2024/2025, some functions may not be working in the version elder than 2024.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning Unknown support for Motion Builder 2023 and below
The AYON Motion Builder integration was initially developed with Motion Builder 2024 and 2025. Hence functionality was not tested in older versions than 2024 and may not work.
:::
```

Reviewer 2: Thank you
https://github.com/ynput/ayon-documentation/pull/221/commits/1945360dfe2770f6a251535d13c63e77de156cc5

> ## Publishing Plugins
> There are some validators from Core Addon can be optionally added for Motion Builder.
> 
> # Validate Version
> Users can access the validator via `ayon+settings://core/publish/ValidateVersion`
> You can add `motionbuilder` as host names if you want to validate workfile version to make sure the workfile version is in the latest version in AYON.
> 
> # Validate Outdated Cotnainer
> Users can access the validator via `ayon+settings://core/publish/ValidateOutdatedContainers`
> You can add `motionbuilder` as host names if you want to validate outdated container to make sure the loaded content is always at the latest version.

Reviewer: The header sections here seem reversed in indentation?

```suggestion
# Publishing Plugins

There are some validators from Core addon setting that can be optionally enabled for Motion Builder.

## Validate Version
Users can access the validator via `ayon+settings://core/publish/ValidateVersion`
You can add `motionbuilder` as host names if you want to make sure the workfile version is newer than the last published product's version.

## Validate Outdated Containers
Users can access the validator via `ayon+settings://core/publish/ValidateOutdatedContainers`
You can add `motionbuilder` as host names if you want to validate outdated container to make sure the loaded content is always at the latest version.
```

Side note: I really feel like we should fine a way to 'document' these or link to some areas of documentation in "core" or "configuring an application" so we don't need this uniquely documented per application or integration. We should maybe just start of these docs with:

1. To configure the application and executables, see **configuring an application**
2. To enable / disable validation X for specific hosts, see **configuring core validators**

So that we don't need to maintain these duplicate entries. Not needed for this PR - just wanted to mention that some structure design there might be nice. @MustafaJafar ?

{versions.MotionBuilder_Badge}
</ReactMarkdown>

:::caution Unknown support for Motion Builder 2023 and below

> The AYON Motion Builder addon was initially developed with Motion Builder 2024 and 2025.

Reviewer: Looking at google results the application is referred to as MotionBuilder. So we we may want to update anywhere we mention "Motion Builder" to that?
```suggestion
The AYON MotionBuilder addon was initially developed with MotionBuilder 2024 and 2025.
```

Hence functionality was not tested in older versions than 2024 and may not work.
:::

## Supported Workflows

The MotionBuilder addon currently enables you to import models, rigs, animations, and cameras. It also supports exporting animations and managing workfiles through saving, opening, and publishing.

:::info Motion Builder Addon Settings

> The Motion Builder addon does not include individual settings, so it won't be listed in your studio's addon settings. However, this does not affect the addon's ability to utilize the core settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MotionBuilder addon does not include individual settings, so it won't be listed in your studio's addon settings. However, this does not affect the addon's ability to utilize the core settings. To detect whether `ayon-motionbuilder` is in your bundle check the Bundles page (shortcut B+B).
```

Reviewer 2: Thank you!
https://github.com/ynput/ayon-documentation/pull/221/commits/ccd92ca1db1d001f4a9d24c480a2ad0f0a335de0

:::

## Publish Plugins

> The Motion Builder addon leverages the plugins from the core addon. Many of these plugins offer filters where you can specify motionbuilder as the host. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MotionBuilder addon leverages the plugins from the core addon. Many of these plugins offer filters where you can specify motionbuilder as the host. For example:
```

> - **Validate Version:** Ensures that the workfile version is up to date with the latest in AYON. Access this validator at `ayon+settings://core/publish/ValidateVersion` and include Motion Builder's host name, which by default is `motionbuilder`.
> ![](assets/motionbuilder/valid_version_plugin.png)
> 
> 
> - **Validate Outdated Container:** Checks that any loaded content is the most recent version. This validator is accessible at `ayon+settings://core/publish/ValidateOutdatedContainers`. Add Motion Builder's host name, which by default is `motionbuilder`.
> ![](assets/motionbuilder/validate_outdated_containers.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Validate Version:** Ensures that the workfile version is up to date with the latest in AYON. Access this validator at `ayon+settings://core/publish/ValidateVersion` and include MotionBuilder's host name, which is `motionbuilder`.
![](assets/motionbuilder/valid_version_plugin.png)

- **Validate Outdated Container:** Checks that any loaded content is the most recent version. This validator is accessible at `ayon+settings://core/publish/ValidateOutdatedContainers`. Add MotionBuilder's host name, which is `motionbuilder`.
![](assets/motionbuilder/validate_outdated_containers.png)
```

Use `MotionBuilder` instead of `MotionBuilder`
Also, as far as I know the host name should not be editable? so mentioning that `motionbuilder` is 'default' host name seems odd?

Reviewer 2: > Also, as far as I know the host name should not be editable?

as far as I know, it's possible to change it in the application settings!
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bc3a7baa-b65d-49fc-8f2d-8a9c6ccf759a)

Reviewer: @iLLiCiTiT out of curiosity? Should it be editable?

And  you're correct - it's also still editable in `applications-1.0.0-dev.1`

Reviewer 2: After working on https://github.com/ynput/ayon-documentation/pull/220 
I can tell that: 
This setting is editable for many reasons: 
1.  This name should be the host name hard coded in the addon. therefore, we need a way to allow specifying that value for applications addon.
2. It's possible for many applications to point to the same host name e.g. different nuke applications.

For motion builder app, applications addon will pick the Motion builder addon because the host name in settings matches [MotionBuilderAddon.host_name](https://github.com/ynput/ayon-motionbuilder/blob/68e2c76bf777540495fee5c4d33c8bbe95d06c66/client/ayon_motionbuilder/addon.py#L14). 

So, it's editable but is that user friendly or is it related to admins ? I can't really tell. 
and it's not related to this PR anyways.
